---
layout: post
title:  "PO SAP 3D"
categories: career
role: "Product Owner"
company: "SAP SE"
location: "Germany"
tags: delivery product
ui: "../assets/ui.visual.business.png"
thumbnail: "../assets/team.3d.jpg"
---
Product Owner / SAP NZ Limited / NEW ZEALAND
responsible for SAP Visual Business and co-responsible for SAP Visual Interaction Toolkit
Unit: SAP Cloud Platform Technology Platform User Interface (May 2016 – November 2017, ~1,5 years)
<!--more-->

While working as a developer in 2015 I started working on an integration project which culminated in an organizational change to achieve synergy effects in our company-wide 3D visualization efforts. This meant value drivers and capabilities of two different proprietary 2D & 3D visualization UI libraries (SAP Visual Business and SAP 3D Visual Enterprise Viewer) moved into a new combined library (SAP Visual Interaction Toolkit & SAP Visualization Services). Through my constant passion for a product-centric perspective, I was selected to lead this integration project. This appointment came via an International Assignment to NZ combined with a co-ownership of the new product. 
I was also singlehandedly responsible as a PO for establishing a team of developers that can maintain and improve the existing German-built 3D Visualization product (SAP Visual Business). This was a challenge with the NZ team missing previous exposure to the product as well as additional pressure through reduced staffing. This also meant that Product Management responsibilities (especially roadmap and external-facing representation) was taken up by me through the PO role.
In addition, I could leverage my previous experience in global teams as well as working with people with diverse cultural backgrounds and foster a spirit of trust and openness, not just in my own Scrum team but in the overall department. 



Balancing the business priorities of each of the distinct existing customer bases with new approaches resolved into a genuine future proof successor for both of the products being phased out, without violating any of our customer commitments. We are especially proud of the concept of modularized browser-based client tools that leverage an open API design that can optionally be fed through a set of commercialized cloud microservices that scale based on arbitrary complexities of visualizations of e.g. sensor data or Building plans in 3D CAD.

https://experience.sap.com/fiori-design-web/maps/