---
layout: post
title:  "PM document management SAP"
categories: career
role: "Product Manager"
company: "SAP SE"
location: "Germany"
tags: delivery discovery product strategy
---

Product Manager (Product Development) / SAP SE / GERMANY
responsible for SAP Document Center, SAP Cloud Platform Document Service, SAP Cloud Platform Document Management
Unit: SAP Technology & Innovation Cloud Platform Products & Services (October 2018 – May 2020, ~2 years)
<!--more-->

This hands-on role as a PM with the backing of two to three POs resembled more the tasks of a CPO.
My first goal was outlined to replace the Document Management tools on SAPs Cloud Platform via sunset and migration path for customers of two products: a SaaS document collaboration tool for the enterprise as well as a PaaS Document Management Service. 
PM tasks included prioritizing features & capabilities from a customer usage perspective and providing a migration-aware roadmap, broken down to several backlogs for the scrum teams, as well as communicating to our stakeholders e.g. where feature parity is not possible.
I was personally involved in the de-escalation management with various customers and could alleviate their concerns by providing exact Requirements Analysis and realistic time frames on a believable roadmap that I negotiated with the architects, POs and teams. 
My second goal was creating & affirming the product strategy by addressing all requirements in the Enterprise Content Management (ECM) domain inside SAP through including several additional POs from throughout the company as well as from partners and customers in our discussion. One cornerstone of this ECM strategy was shaping the new Document Management offering on SAP Cloud Platform based on the sunset of my two products and filling it with an option to form a Joint Venture with SAP Partner Opentext.
Expertise jumps like keeping the stakeholders informed on the high level through e.g. backlogs and roadmaps and keeping up to date with the detailed implications of decisions made on the technical side were crucial to establishing a broader understanding for all stakeholders and ensuring a deep customer focus at the same time.
Finally, through this diligence, we have discovered various commercial and technical discrepancies in the proposed architectural design with integrating the partner Opentext directly. This has forced me to reprioritize components in a true-to-form Agile fashion to first consume cloud-native commodities like AWS S3/Azure storage from the cloud vendors directly. Following on from that we achieved a win-win situation where the partner based joint venture integration would follow as an optional value add for our customers.


Product Manager (Product Development) / SAP SE / GERMANY
Unit: SAP Technology & Innovation Cloud Platform Products & Services (October 2018 – May 2020, ~2 years)
responsible for SAP Document Center, SAP Cloud Platform Document Service, SAP Cloud Platform Document Management
A hands-on role as a PM coordinating two to three POs to replace the Document Management tools on SAPs Cloud Platform via sunset and migration path for customers of two products: a SaaS document collaboration tool for the enterprise as well as a PaaS Document Management Service. 
PM tasks included for example prioritizing capabilities based on a customer usage perspective and providing a roadmap for OnPremise customers, de-escalation management, communicating to our senior stakeholders,  creating & affirming the product strategy to contribute in the Enterprise Content Management (ECM) domain inside SAP, aiming for shared understanding for all stakeholders and ensuring a deep customer focus at the same time.
