---
layout: post
title:  "PO Team Lead Micado"
categories: career
role: "Product Owner"
company: "Micado"
location: "New Zealand"
tags: delivery product
ui: "../assets/ui.micado.png"

thumbnail: "../assets/team.micado.jpg"
---
Product Owner / Micado Ltd / NEW ZEALAND
Focus on Micado Customer360 and Micado Next Best Action products
(June 2021 – December 2021, 6 months)
<!--more-->

After a reset in the business, establishing an engineering team &  product development processes starting from 2 new hires to 6 team members. Focusing on keeping the day-to-day value delivery up during times of high attrition, steering product strategy away from MVP & fully bespoke towards a scalable product. Establishing generic product thinking and practice in a service-based startup meant breaking down barriers in mindset and workmodes. 
Fostering Agile practices, acting as Scrum Master and at times engineering & communications coach. Breaking down complexity & strategy for business stakeholders and translating to engineering requirements. Employing empathy to reduce friction in a fast-paced environment and tailor learning paths to the individuals.
Facilitating Product Management tasks e.g. Value Proposition workshops and owning Backlog, balancing BAU Kan-ban tasks & User Stories workload with quick-turnaround customer requests. Influencing Product and Business Strategy to the point where development of a bespoke core component was effectively halted and is being replaced with a commercial turnkey solution to streamline efforts on ramping up customer onboarding.


https://www.micado.ai/customer360plus 